\input texinfo
@documentencoding UTF-8

@ifnottex
@paragraphindent 0
@end ifnottex
@node Top
@top Top

@menu
* ESS Smart Underscore::
@end menu

@node ESS Smart Underscore
@chapter ESS Smart Underscore
Matthew L. Fidler ## Library Information @emph{ess-smart-underscore.el} --- Ess Smart Underscore

@itemize
@item
@strong{Filename} -- ess-smart-underscore.el
@item
@strong{Description} -- ess-smart-underscore
@item
@strong{Author} -- Matthew L. Fidler
@item
@strong{Maintainer} -- Matthew Fidler
@item
@strong{Created} -- Thu Jul 14 11:04:42 2011 (-0500)
@item
@strong{Version} -- 0.74
@item
@strong{Last-Updated} -- Mon Apr 9 15:27:09 2012 (-0500)
@item
@strong{By} -- Matthew L. Fidler
@item
@strong{Update #} -- 137
@item
@strong{URL} -- http:__github.com_mlf176f2_ess-smart-underscore.el
@item
@strong{Keywords} -- ESS@comma{} underscore Compatibility:
@end itemize

@menu
* Possible Dependencies::
* Installation::
* History::
@end menu

@node Possible Dependencies
@section Possible Dependencies
@code{custom'@comma{}}easymenu'@comma{} @code{ess'@comma{}}ess-compat'@comma{} @code{ess-custom'@comma{}}font-lock'@comma{} @code{syntax'@comma{}}widget'.

@node Installation
@section Installation
To use without using a package manager:

@itemize
@item
Put the library in a directory in the emacs load path@comma{} like ~/.emacs.d
@item
Add (require 'ess-smart-underscore) in your ~/.emacs file
@end itemize

This is in emacswiki@comma{} so this package can also be installed using el-get.

After installing el-get@comma{} Type M-x el-get-install ess-smart-underscore. ## Ess-Smart Underscore Package Information Smart "_" key: insert @code{ess-S-assign}@comma{} unless:

@enumerate 
@item
in string/comment
@item
after a $ (like d@math{one_two) (toggle with `ess-S-underscore-after-}`)
@item
when the underscore is part of a variable definition previously defined. (toggle with `ess-S-underscore-after-defined')
@item
when the underscore is after a "=" or "<-" on the same line.
@item
inside a parenthetical statement () or []. (toggle with @code{ess-S-underscore-when-inside-paren})
@item
At the beginning of a line.
@item
In a variable that contains underscores already (for example foo_a) (toggle with @code{ess-S-underscore-when-variable-contains-underscores})
@item
The preceding character is not a tab/space (toggle with @code{ess-S-underscore-when-last-character-is-a-space}. Not enabled by default.)
@end enumerate

An exception to #4 is in the following situation:

a <- b |

Pressing an underscore here would produce

a <- b <-

However when in the following situation

a <- b|

Pressing an underscore would produce

a <- b_

This behavior can be toggled by @code{ess-S-space-underscore-is-assignment}

If the underscore key is pressed a second time@comma{} the assignment operator is removed and replaced by the underscore. @code{ess-S-assign}@comma{} typically " <- "@comma{} can be customized. In ESS modes other than R/S@comma{} an underscore is always inserted.

In addition the ess-smart-underscore attempts to work with noweb-mode

@node History
@section History
@itemize
@item
@strong{05-Nov-2012} -- Better handling of noweb. I think it Came from Denis Haine and Martin Maechler. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{22-Feb-2012} -- Support unbalanced sexps. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{02-Feb-2012} -- Took out auto-installing. Most package managers don't want you to do this. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{03-Aug-2011} -- Bug fix for parenthetical statement (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{20-Jul-2011} -- Changed to allow underscore instead of assign when inside a parenthetical statement. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{15-Jul-2011} -- Bug fix for d[d@math{CMT `` 2,"DV"] _ to produce d[d}CMT `` 2@comma{}"DV"] <- (Matthew L. Fidler)* Functions ### Interactive Functions
@end itemize

@menu
* Internal Functions::
@end menu

@node ess-smart-underscore
@subsubsection ess-smart-underscore
@code{(ess-smart-underscore)}

Smart "_" key: insert @code{ess-S-assign}@comma{} unless in string/comment. If the underscore key is pressed a second time@comma{} the assignment operator is removed and replaced by the underscore. @code{ess-S-assign}@comma{} typically " <- "@comma{} can be customized. In ESS modes other than R/S@comma{} an underscore is always inserted.

@node Internal Functions
@subsection Internal Functions

@bye
